Atlas Edit Proposal — 2026-06-15 (#258)
makerdao/next-gen-atlas: content/A/1/10/2/4/3/1/3/1/document.md

Routine coordination among the Spell Teams in their own working channels is expected. A disagreement over whether to include an item must not, however, be resolved in a way that excludes the Core Facilitator or that settles the matter privately and reports only the outcome. The positions of each party, and the reasoning through which the disagreement is resolved, must be visible in the govops channel in Slack.

Where a security or confidentiality concern makes it necessary to discuss such a disagreement in a private channel, the parties to that discussion must afterwards provide a substantive accounting in the govops channel in Slack, setting out the positions of each party and how the settled position was reached.

> Where there is credible suspicion that the Core Facilitator is compromised, Core GovOps makes the final inclusion decision for the Executive Vote in question in the Core Facilitator's place, and the adjudication process specified in [A.1.7.6 - Acting Against Misalignment](7aafa61e-8649-41fb-8c3f-64e5714f9f18) applies.

Reviewer: The terms "credible suspicion" and "compromised" are not operationally defined, which makes the escalation condition difficult to audit and apply consistently. Different actors may reach different conclusions about when the emergency process should activate, creating governance disputes or allowing the mechanism to be invoked inconsistently.
Minimal fix: Replace the subjective trigger with a formally defined declaration process (e.g. a documented Core GovOps decision procedure or multi-signature vote threshold) that explicitly determines when the Core Facilitator is considered compromised for the purposes of this provision.

```suggestion
Where the Core Facilitator has been formally declared compromised according to a documented Core GovOps decision procedure, Core GovOps makes the final inclusion decision for the Executive Vote in question. The adjudication process specified in [A.1.7.6 - Acting Against Misalignment](7aafa61e-8649-41fb-8c3f-64e5714f9f18) shall apply.
```
